.\" Manpage for simple_shell
.TH man 3 "26 March 2018" "1.0" "simple_shell"

.SH NAME

.B simple_shell
- command interpreter (shell)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B hsh
[command_file [argument ...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
simple_shell is a command interpreter for the system. This man page is not intended to be a tutorial or a complete speification of the shell. 

.B Overview
The shell is a command that reads lines from either a file or the terminal, interprets them, and executes other commans. The dash shell is the standard shell program that runs when a user logs into the system. This simple_shell intends to emulate the dash shell as accurately as possible, for academic purposes. It can be used in either interactive and non-interactive modes. For interactive mode, commands can be typed directly into the running shell. For non-interactive mode commands can be put into a file and the file can be executed by the shell. 

.B Invocation
If no args are present and if the standard input of the shell is connected to a terminal, the shell is considered an interactive shell. The interactive shell prompts before each command.

.B Commands
The shell interprets the words it reads according to a language. A line is read and if the first word of the line is recognized by the shell as a command.

.B Search and Execution
There are two types of commands: built-in commands and normal programs. A command is searched by, by name, in that order. 

Shell built-in are executed internally to the shell, without spawning a new process.
If the command name doesn’t match a built-in the command is searched for as a normal program in the file system. When a normal program is executed the shell runs the program, passing the arguments and the environment to the program.

.B Path Search
When locating a command, the shell first looks for a built-in command. If the built-in command is not found, one of three things happen:

1.   Commands containing an absolute path are executed without performing any searches.
2.   Commands calling programs in the current working directory are executed without performing any searches.
3.   The shell searches each entry in the PATH for the command. The value of the PATH variable should be a series of entries separated by colons.

.B Built-ins
This section lists the built-in commands.

exit
	Terminates the shell process.

env
	Prints the current environment.

.SH EXAMPLE
$ ls
README.md      args_execute.c  errors.c  launch_prog.c  read_line.c   simple_shell.c  strutil.c  util.c
arg_to_path.c  builtin_func.c  hsh       parse_argv.c   shell_loop.c  simple_shell.h  test
$

.SH SEE ALSO
.I dash(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Afa Madza and Alex Allen, with assistance from members of Holberton School Cohort 5.